README.md, before:

# 🧌 Orc Simulator

**🎮 [Play Live Game](https://emlynoregan.com/orcsimulator)** | **Status: ✅ Complete & Deployed**

A browser-based AI chat game where you interact with Munch, an angry orc who guards a magic amulet. The entire game runs client-side using WebAssembly and a 500M parameter language model - no servers required!

## 🎯 **Game Overview**

Chat with **Munch**, an angry orc who doesn't trust humans. He guards a precious magic amulet and won't let anyone near it... unless you know how to talk to him. Try different approaches - threats, offers, questions, or food bribes!

**🎮 [Try it now at emlynoregan.com/orcsimulator](https://emlynoregan.com/orcsimulator)**

## ✨ **Key Features**

- **🤖 True AI Conversations**: Powered by Qwen2-0.5B-Instruct (500M parameters)
- **🌐 100% Browser-based**: No backend servers, API keys, or data collection
- **⚡ WebAssembly Performance**: High-speed AI inference in your browser
- **🔄 Universal Deployment**: Smart CDN fallback works everywhere
- **📱 Mobile Ready**: Responsive design for all devices
- **🔒 Privacy First**: All interactions happen locally in your browser
- **💾 Offline Capable**: Works without internet after initial model download

## 🚀 **Quick Start**

### **Play Online** (Recommended)
Just visit: **[emlynoregan.com/orcsimulator](https://emlynoregan.com/orcsimulator)**

### **Local Development**
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/orcsimulator.git
cd orcsimulator

# Start local servers with CDN proxy
python run_game.py

# Game opens automatically at http://localhost:8000
```

## 🎮 **How to Play**

1. **🌐 Visit**: Go to [emlynoregan.com/orcsimulator](https://emlynoregan.com/orcsimulator)
2. **⏳ Wait**: Game downloads 120MB AI model on first load (1-5 minutes)
3. **💬 Chat**: Type messages to interact with Munch the orc
4. **🧪 Explore**: Try different approaches - threats, offers, questions, food
5. **🔄 Restart**: Use restart button to begin fresh conversations

## 🛠️ **Technical Innovation**

### **🔄 Universal CDN Fallback**
Revolutionary deployment system that works everywhere:

- **🌐 GitHub Pages**: Loads directly from CDN (`https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@wllama/wllama@2.3.2/esm/index.js`)
- **🏠 Local Development**: Automatically falls back to proxy (`http://localhost:8001/wllama/index.js`)
- **🔄 Automatic Detection**: Seamlessly switches based on environment
- **⚡ Zero Configuration**: No build process or manual setup

### **🏗️ Architecture**
- **Frontend**: HTML5, CSS3, Vanilla JavaScript (ES6+)
- **AI Model**: Qwen2-0.5B-Instruct (quantized GGUF format)
- **Runtime**: wllama (WebAssembly)
- **Threading**: SharedArrayBuffer via coi-serviceworker
- **Deployment**: GitHub Pages with custom domain

### **📁 File Structure**
```
orcsimulator/
├── index.html              # Landing page with browser check
├── game.html               # Main game interface
├── coi-serviceworker.min.js # Service worker for WebAssembly
├── css/
│   ├── style.css           # Global styles
│   ├── landing.css         # Landing page styles
│   └── game.css            # Game interface styles
├── js/
│   ├── main.js             # Landing page logic
│   └── game.js             # Game logic with CDN fallback
├── docs/                   # Technical documentation
├── cdn_proxy.py            # Local development proxy
├── run_game.py             # Development server launcher
└── DEPLOYMENT.md           # Deployment guide
```

## 🎭 **Meet Munch**

**Munch** is an angry orc who:
- 🏰 Guards a precious magic amulet
- 😠 Distrusts humans by default
- ⚔️ Responds aggressively to threats
- 🍖 Might soften when offered food
- 🗣️ Speaks in short, brutal sentences
- 🧠 Has genuine AI personality (not scripted responses)

## 📊 **System Requirements**

### **Minimum Requirements**
- **Browser**: Chrome 91+, Firefox 89+, Safari 16.4+, iOS 16.4+
- **Memory**: 500MB RAM available
- **Storage**: 120MB for AI model download
- **Connection**: Broadband internet for initial download

### **Browser Compatibility**
| Browser | Min Version | Status |
|---------|-------------|--------|
| Chrome | 91+ | ✅ Full support |
| Firefox | 89+ | ✅ Full support |
| Safari | 16.4+ | ✅ Full support |
| Edge | 91+ | ✅ Full support |
| iOS Safari | 16.4+ | ✅ Mobile support |

## ⚡ **Performance**

- **First Load**: Model download takes 1-5 minutes depending on connection
- **Subsequent Loads**: Game starts instantly (model cached locally)
- **Memory Usage**: ~500MB RAM during gameplay
- **Response Time**: 1-3 seconds per AI response on modern hardware
- **Mobile Performance**: Optimized for smartphones and tablets

## 🌐 **Deployment Options**

### **GitHub Pages** (Production)
1. **Fork/Clone**: This repository
2. **Enable Pages**: Repository Settings → Pages → Deploy from main branch
3. **Custom Domain**: Optional - set up your own domain
4. **Access**: `https://yourusername.github.io/orcsimulator`

### **Local Development**
```bash
# Quick start with auto-proxy
python run_game.py

# Manual setup
python -m http.server 8000    # Game server
python cdn_proxy.py           # CDN proxy (separate terminal)
```

## 🔧 **Troubleshooting**

### **Model Won't Download**
- Check internet connection and firewall
- Disable ad blockers temporarily
- Try incognito/private browsing mode
- Clear browser cache and reload

### **Poor Performance**
- Close other browser tabs to free memory
- Ensure browser supports SharedArrayBuffer
- Try on a different device with more RAM
- Check available system memory

### **Game Won't Load**
- Verify browser compatibility
- Enable JavaScript in browser settings
- Check browser console for errors (F12)
- Try a different browser

## 🎯 **Development Status**

### **✅ Completed Features**
- [x] AI-powered orc character with personality
- [x] Responsive web interface
- [x] WebAssembly integration
- [x] CDN fallback mechanism
- [x] Mobile compatibility
- [x] GitHub Pages deployment
- [x] Custom domain setup

### **🚀 Future Enhancements**
- [ ] Multiple characters and personalities
- [ ] Save/load conversation history
- [ ] Voice input/output
- [ ] Achievements and unlockables
- [ ] Character customization
- [ ] Multiplayer chat rooms

## 📄 **License**

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 **Credits**

- **AI Model**: [Qwen2-0.5B-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2-0.5B-Instruct-GGUF) by Alibaba
- **WebAssembly Runtime**: [wllama](https://github.com/ngxson/wllama)
- **Threading Support**: [coi-serviceworker](https://github.com/gzuidhof/coi-serviceworker)
- **Model CDN**: [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/)
- **Deployment**: [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/)

## 🔗 **Links**

- **🎮 [Play Live Game](https://emlynoregan.com/orcsimulator)**
- **📖 [Technical Documentation](docs/)**
- **🚀 [Deployment Guide](DEPLOYMENT.md)**
- **💻 [Source Code](https://github.com/yourusername/orcsimulator)**

---

*🎮 Built with ❤️ and AI. No servers harmed in the making of this game.*

**[▶️ Play Orc Simulator Now](https://emlynoregan.com/orcsimulator)**

Commit message:

Enhance README with Firefox compatibility instructions, add CSS animation for status checking, and refactor main.js for asynchronous browser compatibility checks and improved error handling for Firefox users. This update provides clearer guidance for users experiencing issues with AI model loading in Firefox.

README.md, after:

# 🧌 Orc Simulator

**🎮 [Play Live Game](https://emlynoregan.com/orcsimulator)** | **Status: ✅ Complete & Deployed**

A browser-based AI chat game where you interact with Munch, an angry orc who guards a magic amulet. The entire game runs client-side using WebAssembly and a 500M parameter language model - no servers required!

## 🎯 **Game Overview**

Chat with **Munch**, an angry orc who doesn't trust humans. He guards a precious magic amulet and won't let anyone near it... unless you know how to talk to him. Try different approaches - threats, offers, questions, or food bribes!

**🎮 [Try it now at emlynoregan.com/orcsimulator](https://emlynoregan.com/orcsimulator)**

## ✨ **Key Features**

- **🤖 True AI Conversations**: Powered by Qwen2-0.5B-Instruct (500M parameters)
- **🌐 100% Browser-based**: No backend servers, API keys, or data collection
- **⚡ WebAssembly Performance**: High-speed AI inference in your browser
- **🔄 Universal Deployment**: Smart CDN fallback works everywhere
- **📱 Mobile Ready**: Responsive design for all devices
- **🔒 Privacy First**: All interactions happen locally in your browser
- **💾 Offline Capable**: Works without internet after initial model download

## 🚀 **Quick Start**

### **Play Online** (Recommended)
Just visit: **[emlynoregan.com/orcsimulator](https://emlynoregan.com/orcsimulator)**

### **Local Development**
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/orcsimulator.git
cd orcsimulator

# Start local servers with CDN proxy
python run_game.py

# Game opens automatically at http://localhost:8000
```

## 🎮 **How to Play**

1. **🌐 Visit**: Go to [emlynoregan.com/orcsimulator](https://emlynoregan.com/orcsimulator)
2. **⏳ Wait**: Game downloads 120MB AI model on first load (1-5 minutes)
3. **💬 Chat**: Type messages to interact with Munch the orc
4. **🧪 Explore**: Try different approaches - threats, offers, questions, food
5. **🔄 Restart**: Use restart button to begin fresh conversations

## 🛠️ **Technical Innovation**

### **🔄 Universal CDN Fallback**
Revolutionary deployment system that works everywhere:

- **🌐 GitHub Pages**: Loads directly from CDN (`https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@wllama/wllama@2.3.2/esm/index.js`)
- **🏠 Local Development**: Automatically falls back to proxy (`http://localhost:8001/wllama/index.js`)
- **🔄 Automatic Detection**: Seamlessly switches based on environment
- **⚡ Zero Configuration**: No build process or manual setup

### **🏗️ Architecture**
- **Frontend**: HTML5, CSS3, Vanilla JavaScript (ES6+)
- **AI Model**: Qwen2-0.5B-Instruct (quantized GGUF format)
- **Runtime**: wllama (WebAssembly)
- **Threading**: SharedArrayBuffer via coi-serviceworker
- **Deployment**: GitHub Pages with custom domain

### **📁 File Structure**
```
orcsimulator/
├── index.html              # Landing page with browser check
├── game.html               # Main game interface
├── coi-serviceworker.min.js # Service worker for WebAssembly
├── css/
│   ├── style.css           # Global styles
│   ├── landing.css         # Landing page styles
│   └── game.css            # Game interface styles
├── js/
│   ├── main.js             # Landing page logic
│   └── game.js             # Game logic with CDN fallback
├── docs/                   # Technical documentation
├── cdn_proxy.py            # Local development proxy
├── run_game.py             # Development server launcher
└── DEPLOYMENT.md           # Deployment guide
```

## 🎭 **Meet Munch**

**Munch** is an angry orc who:
- 🏰 Guards a precious magic amulet
- 😠 Distrusts humans by default
- ⚔️ Responds aggressively to threats
- 🍖 Might soften when offered food
- 🗣️ Speaks in short, brutal sentences
- 🧠 Has genuine AI personality (not scripted responses)

## 📊 **System Requirements**

### **Minimum Requirements**
- **Browser**: Chrome 91+, Firefox 89+, Safari 16.4+, iOS 16.4+
- **Memory**: 500MB RAM available
- **Storage**: 120MB for AI model download
- **Connection**: Broadband internet for initial download

### **Browser Compatibility**
| Browser | Min Version | Status |
|---------|-------------|--------|
| Chrome | 91+ | ✅ Full support |
| Firefox | 89+ | ✅ Full support |
| Safari | 16.4+ | ✅ Full support |
| Edge | 91+ | ✅ Full support |
| iOS Safari | 16.4+ | ✅ Mobile support |

## ⚡ **Performance**

- **First Load**: Model download takes 1-5 minutes depending on connection
- **Subsequent Loads**: Game starts instantly (model cached locally)
- **Memory Usage**: ~500MB RAM during gameplay
- **Response Time**: 1-3 seconds per AI response on modern hardware
- **Mobile Performance**: Optimized for smartphones and tablets

## 🌐 **Deployment Options**

### **GitHub Pages** (Production)
1. **Fork/Clone**: This repository
2. **Enable Pages**: Repository Settings → Pages → Deploy from main branch
3. **Custom Domain**: Optional - set up your own domain
4. **Access**: `https://yourusername.github.io/orcsimulator`

### **Local Development**
```bash
# Quick start with auto-proxy
python run_game.py

# Manual setup
python -m http.server 8000    # Game server
python cdn_proxy.py           # CDN proxy (separate terminal)
```

## 🔧 **Troubleshooting**

### **Model Won't Download**
- Check internet connection and firewall
- Disable ad blockers temporarily
- Try incognito/private browsing mode
- Clear browser cache and reload

### **Poor Performance**
- Close other browser tabs to free memory
- Ensure browser supports SharedArrayBuffer
- Try on a different device with more RAM
- Check available system memory

### **Game Won't Load**
- Verify browser compatibility
- Enable JavaScript in browser settings
- Check browser console for errors (F12)
- Try a different browser

### **Firefox Users (Important!)**
Firefox has stricter security policies that can prevent the AI model from loading. To fix this:

**Option A - Use a different browser:**
- Chrome, Edge, or Safari work best

**Option B - Run on local server:**
1. Open terminal/command prompt in the game folder
2. Run: `python -m http.server 8000` (Python 3) or `python -m SimpleHTTPServer 8000` (Python 2)
3. Open `http://localhost:8000` in Firefox
4. **DO NOT** open the HTML file directly

**Option C - Firefox CORS fix:**
1. Type `about:config` in Firefox address bar
2. Search for `security.fileuri.strict_origin_policy`
3. Set it to `false`
4. Restart Firefox

## 🎯 **Development Status**

### **✅ Completed Features**
- [x] AI-powered orc character with personality
- [x] Responsive web interface
- [x] WebAssembly integration
- [x] CDN fallback mechanism
- [x] Mobile compatibility
- [x] GitHub Pages deployment
- [x] Custom domain setup

### **🚀 Future Enhancements**
- [ ] Multiple characters and personalities
- [ ] Save/load conversation history
- [ ] Voice input/output
- [ ] Achievements and unlockables
- [ ] Character customization
- [ ] Multiplayer chat rooms

## 📄 **License**

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 **Credits**

- **AI Model**: [Qwen2-0.5B-Instruct](https://huggingface.co/Qwen/Qwen2-0.5B-Instruct-GGUF) by Alibaba
- **WebAssembly Runtime**: [wllama](https://github.com/ngxson/wllama)
- **Threading Support**: [coi-serviceworker](https://github.com/gzuidhof/coi-serviceworker)
- **Model CDN**: [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/)
- **Deployment**: [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/)

## 🔗 **Links**

- **🎮 [Play Live Game](https://emlynoregan.com/orcsimulator)**
- **📖 [Technical Documentation](docs/)**
- **🚀 [Deployment Guide](DEPLOYMENT.md)**
- **💻 [Source Code](https://github.com/yourusername/orcsimulator)**

---

*🎮 Built with ❤️ and AI. No servers harmed in the making of this game.*

**[▶️ Play Orc Simulator Now](https://emlynoregan.com/orcsimulator)**
